h1. 2017  OpenCV Meeting notes

Template is at http://code.opencv.org/projects/opencv/wiki/Template
http://code.opencv.org/help/wiki_syntax

[[Meeting_notes]]

<pre>
      <><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

h2. 2017-01-30

h3. _*Agenda*_

* GSoC


h3. *_Minutes_*

* GSoC
** DNN Intel contributing 
*** Training mini-batch -- can be pluralized across samples
*** Inference -- one sample
** Project to detect useful objects
*** Face
*** Pedestrian 
*** Car
*** Smaller architectures is 50x smaller than Alex net for example
**** Optimization on mobile -- model has to be compact, just a few GFLOPs, run quantized, code flow should be optimized for the architecture but this is beyond scope for a student
** Squeeze net ... tiny_dnn
*** Gam low power
** Improving Tutorials
*** How to use the deep learning
*** Update existing tutorials
*** Tracking
*** Computational photography
*** Camera calibration
** April tags or Aruco to make a true checkerboard as tags 
** Improve Aruco and Charuco code
** SLAM ? All efforts have failed. Only if we can find someone far along in a related thesis
** Better background subtraction
*** Current MoG has a flaw -- all pixels independently -- no smoothness, spacial constraints
** __We have better optical flow now__ --test--
** Better saliency model


h3. *_Reports_*

* . Vadim



h3. *_Action Items_*

*Gary*

* .

*Vincent*

* .

*Vadim*

* .

*Grace*

* .





***



[[Meeting_notes]]