# 2020  OpenCV Technical Committee

* [Markdown Syntax](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)
* OpenCV
   * [OpenCV Home Page](https://opencv.org/)
   * [OpenCV Developer Site](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki)
   * [OpenCV Meeting Notes Home](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/Meeting_notes)

[[Meeting_notes]]

# Template

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-mm-dd

## __*Agenda*__
* 

### *__Minutes__*
* 

### *__To Dos__*
* Name
  - [ ] todo

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>


## 2020-05-22

## __*Agenda*__
* OpenCV license: BSD => Apache 2 
* GSoC update
* Hackathon
* PRs & issues for discussion:
   * Linking Tutorial Pages to Their Github Source Pag[#17342](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/17342)
   * [Many documentation PRs](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-spr-2020)
   * Add eigen tensor conversions [#17320](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/17320)
   * Objc binding [#17165](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/17165) -- no review progress
   * Flush to zero Convolution denormal weights [#17295](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/17295)
   * Create multiscale_sharpen [#17274](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/17274)
   * Create separate section and table of contents for contours articles [#17338-(https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/17338)
   * Implement QR Code decoder and encoder [#17290](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/17290)


### *__Minutes__*
* Team are discussion license Apache 2.0 changing
* GSoC update
   * The first evaluation -- June 29th.
   * All mentors connected to students and most of them started work earlier.
* Hackathon:
   * [Announcement](https://opencv.org/opencv-hackathon-starts-next-week)
   * Tickets & PRs: [1](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/labels/Hackathon), [2](https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib/labels/Hackathon)




<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>


## 2020-05-20

### *__Minutes__*
* "Google summer of code" in China
   * https://isrc.iscas.ac.cn/summer2020/#/
       * 5 projects submitted drawn from the list we didn't fill from GSoC 
       * June 30th decision
* Extend llvm compiler to extend extrinsic to Risk-V
* Ransac: Refactoring Possibly Eigen as a dependency
* Point cloud -- also needs better ransac (plane fitting etc). Possibly Eigen as a dependency
* Text detect and recognition w/o licensing issues
* Tracker project ? keep Stephano in loop
   * Detection and Recognition ... should this be a high level API?
   * Feature extraction -- load network and coordinate on GPU/CPU (when to switch ... impact on inference time)
      * Object tracker should send to Stephano weekly report
   * Sharing of deep backbones -- don't put this on students this summer (creates dependencies -- too hard)
      * Might take a year on optimization on how to share backbones
* Javascript bindings
* Macbeth. Develop as if the model has been downloaded and running in DNN
   * Pre and post-processing in DNN tensors on input and output
* Deepnet glue between models ... vision capsules high level I/O
   * 2 years ago high level API on I/O started
* Pull requests 56 active day by day seems to be equilibrium level
   * 6 pull requests this week
   * Merged several on documentation
* Published on-site about blog and Hackathon
   * Article for blog wasn't posted Valeri Current state of object recognition
* Students who can start should 



### *__To Dos__*
* Name
  - [ ] todo


<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-05-13

### *__Minutes__*

* C++11 compatibility is making porting easier according to some in Google
   * TR1 in OpenCV tests could be removed since compatible with C++17, but minimal is C++11
   * More useable for real applications and apps
   * Fuzzing helping with invalid data imreads etc
   * Starting earlier
* Vadim
   * Started communication with Julia bindings project
      * Adding deeplearning support
      * Then rest of time spending on adding automatic bindings
   * Ransac improvements
      * Headers will need refactoring, next meeting on Friday. 
      * Wants to start earlier
   * Risc-V optimization -- tomorrow meeting
* Gary
   * Macbeth cart
      * Prepare pull request of existing code
      * Dataset
         * Can maybe get from this paper https://github.com/pedrodiamel/colorchecker-detection
* Anna
   * Pull requests working on several
   * Risc-V project support ongoing
   * Interviews being prepared for OpenCV
   * Working on the blog -- community input
      * Video -- every 2 weeks
      * ROS
* OpenCV hackathon in last week of May
   * Focusing on
* Russian holidays last week, so light progress
   * Next week, focus on GSoC
   * Object tracking
   * SIFT
   * SLAM 
      * https://github.com/luigifreda/pyslam
   * Optimization for Javascript
* Hardware partnership program
   * Want to participate in China, but in different format: Arm, Risk-V, 3D sensors, ToF

### *__To Dos__*
* Name
  - [ ] Set up meeting about hardware program -- Western vs China version more sync'ed

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-05-08

## __*Agenda*__
* Two-stage picture reading for processing decompression bombs on the user side.
* Hackaton 
* OpenCV blog: new article [here](https://opencv.org/opencv4arts-draw-my-city-vincent/)
* ObjC / Swift bindings: #17165
* Please add to read me as a development resource: #17179
* Create Non-Transparent OpenCL API for better GPU / Accelerators utilization #17216
* Suggestion for creation of OpenCV technical notes #17217


### *__Minutes__*
* Decompression bomb. Filed ticket [#1724](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/1724), targeted for the next Hackathon.
* May 25-31 -- date approved. Lydia works on the announcement. Anna, Garry, Vadim, Satia will help to promote. Alexander & Valdimir are ready to support the activities.
* OpenCV 5.0 release planned for autumn. 
* Internal: OpenCV 30 anniversary. Intel sponsors video preparation. Need to ensure on Intel and OpenCV.org collaboration. Anna proposed to prepare a list of people for the interview and write a script. Lydia drives this activity.
* Dmitri’s article is published. Anna will provide feedback on formatting.
* Vadim Pisarevsly will look at Obj-C bindings and Non-Transparent API proposal.




<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-05-06

### *__Minutes__*
* Put together list of video interviews for computer vision and also opencv history
* Vadim will help with the following GSoC OpenCV projects:
   * Text detection, 2 projects (mentored by Shiqi and Vladimir T)
   * Ransac improvements (mentor)
   * Julia bindings (co-mentoring with Sayan)
   * RISC-V support (mentored by Alex from x.ai)
   * Going to write on SIFT improvements (mentored by Vitaly T)
* Vincent
   * New OpenCV being more standard makes OpenCV makes builds easier
* Anna
   * Pull requests being delt with
   * First blog upcoming
   * Risc-V side prep -- make sure can build and compile
* Satya
   * OpenCV/OpenVino -- OpenVino said they'd fund competitions
      * Conference Agricultural AI -- Remote sensing image analysis -- look up page in CVPR
      * Join w/Kaggle in a challenge

### *__To Dos__*
* Anna
  - [ ] Start spreadsheet for interview contacts
* Gary
  - [ ] Look up CVPR
  - [ ] Agricultural data from Cognitive Tech
  - [ ] Covid-19 data flicker site, mask/no mask 
  - [ ] NYTimes team
  - [ ] CARLA
  - [ ] Update mentor email list
* Vadim
  - [ ] GSoC project table

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-04-29

### *__Minutes__*
* GSoC
   * 14 Slots -- had 17 good project, 2 went to Tensor Flow, 
       * [Have 14 solid ones](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/dashboard/proposals/starred/?sp-can_be_accepted)
   * Need mentors to start communicating
* OpenCV 5 postpone to Sept
   * Coronavirus delaying ARM optimization
       * Single threaded is great, but needs better multi-threaded support
       * Need to start extensive testing on ARM using a powerful ARM server (preferably, 16+ cores w. lot's of RAM and fast SSD drive)
   * GSoC results will be integrated
       * Important this year to have the students put out tutorial video 
   * Can have Zoom seminar about all this and/or also on Youtube
       * Tutorials, new features, can [pyimagesearch](https://www.pyimagesearch.com/)
* Create a Video channel for OpenCV on YouTube
   * Shiqui Yu has a bunch of edge content
* Hackathon
   * Mark pull requests for hackathon -- focal on these (procedure to close)
   * Reviewed several 
   * Committed part of RISC-V needed for GSoC
* Blog
   * Working with authors for OpenCV blog already. One is ready to go
* Data augmentation guys, fast augmentations based on OpenCV
   * Want functionality for basic things -- simple to scale image
   * Easier optimized interface (scale, lighting ...)
   * Decompression bound -- send a warning to user or crush
       * Could you just resize?
* Managing Large images (Friday meetings) 2am
   * Super quick size check read the header, then data
       * Need to expose 2 steps so user can warn or abort on too huge images
   * Read images into the provided buffer to save memory allocation
   * 1-2 weeks for basic API
   * Needs to be Fuzzed a lot because reading opens security concerns
* oneAPI 
    * https://newsroom.intel.com/articles/fact-sheet-oneapi/#gs.5ez60e
    * for CUDA Cudadnn Augmentation kernel
* OpenVino some ideas
    * 20th birthday ... maybe funds 
    * Talk to luminaries -- video series -- see where OpenCV is used
       * Scholarship or Challenge
       * $5K for implementing a features
* Come up Challenges list w/Prize money
* Data partners for OpenCV
   * Could do some free data annotation
   * Possibly in conjunction with challenges
   * Windows installer
   * Multi-camera calibration
   * Agricultural stuff


Core
1. GSoC 2020 -- 14 are allocated and ready to go.
1. OpenCV slack channel is community-driven, not handled by OpenCV core team. @Grigory participates in the channel and will provide link. Lydia will update link @opencv.org. Ticket: https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/17142
1. Grigory has feedback from Python users community. AI to Grigory to provide list. Recommendation: to authors: submit a ticket to have solution to talk to authors directly.
1. OpenCV team plans to organize Hackaton at the end of May. AI to Alexander to prepare tasks list.
1. April 30 - May 6 CI downtime -- maintenance.
1. PRs:
   1. SIFT: moving to the main repository: #17119. Initial work is done by the core team (Alexander Alekhin). Adjusted GSoC 2020 proposal accordingly. Restored implementation breaks C++ backward compatibility due to Visual Studio compilation issue. AI to Vadim Pisarevsky to review.
   1. core(matrix): Negative values checks #17077 -- the changed code is not well covered with tests. Alexander Alekhin plans to look at code coverage report. The proposed solution is not complete for now.
   1. Fisheye model extended with additional plane to support FOV > 90 in projectPoints #16926 AI to Vadim Pisarevsky to handle the proposal.



### *__To Dos__*
* Vadim
  - [ ] Bring up managing image read in technical meeting

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-04-22

### *__Minutes__*
* GSoC 16-17
   * All have mentors
* OpenCV 5 (20th anniversary) 
   * ARM Optimization (so far, mostly single threaded) 
      * Some in multi-core, more work ongoing
   * CUDA optimization -- contribution (inference but it tunes itself once)
   * API, SIFT to main, ASift
   * Color SIFT max gradient over colors
   * Depth/ToF
* Vadim
   * Optimization of Risk-V discussion, team is working on
   * Waiting for Google for SLOTS
* Anna
   * Video writer clean up
   * Initial Risk-V support
   * Blog Post
* Vladamir
   * Gaussian blur polarization ... but code size too large
   * Ipp has this can customize dynamic for each CPU, but OpenCV is static and linker cannot split
   * GSoC Choose mentor for tracker -- Done
   * DNN improved with NGraph. Trying to enable new topologies for optical flow
   * Javascript for "intelligent scissors" -- good for dataset annotation
   * Published an article in Russian, translate for BLOG
   * OpenVino release 2020.3 end of May, long term support release
   * QR detection recognition
   * Object tracking -- separate tracking repository: Datasets for evaluation 
      * QR, Obj Tracking
* Edgar
   * O.21 Kornia release
   * Differentiable tensors w/o TorchVision
   * Data augmentation define own pipelines by overloading operators
   * Deep descriptors Haar
   * Online talk https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zltoYKu4ct0
   * Support for TPU
* Gary
   * Legal docs for joining/leaving OSVF.org coming

### *__To Dos__*
* Name
  - [ ] todo

## 2020-04-17

## __*Agenda*__
* GSoC 2020 status
* Started work on RISC-V support in OpenCV: implemented simple toolchain file for GNU RISC-V64 compiler, enabled minimalistic build
* OpenCV blog status 
* Runtime algorithm selection for cudnn convolution #16900
* PIL #17068
* Samples and tutorials for the Dnn High Level API #15240
* Fisheye model extended with additional plane to support FOV > 90 in projectPoints #16926
* Imgproc: templmatch: Add support for mask for all methods #15214
* Added Dashed Rectangle feature in Drawing.cpp #16880

### *__Minutes__*
* GSoC: current amount of proposals - 12-16. Action item to all mentors to select projects and press the “mentor” button on the proposal page
* Alexander Smorkalov starts work on RISC-V support in OpenCV as preparation step for RISC-V project in GSOC 2020
* OpenCV blog: Articles verification group has been created (Vadim Pisarevsky, Vladimir Dudnik) 
* [#16900](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16900): Ask author to make benchmarking approach optional. Add item to hackathon to align the solution with OpenCL.
* Samples and tutorials for the Dnn High Level API [#15240](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/15240): -- AI to Vadim to add checklist with remaining items
* Fisheye model extended with additional plane to support FOV > 90 in projectPoints -- AI to Griogry to comment the patch. Should be closed in several days, if author does not respond.
* Added Dashed Rectangle feature in Drawing.cpp [PR #16880](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16880): -- AI to Vadim to comment.



<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-04-15

### *__Minutes__*
* GSoC
   * [Looks like](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1XFK4PfBZ807nAZit7L6yC7U7JfJJwoewVjiobKRRHlA) we might have ~10 "really want"
      * Where to get data from -- generate and collect
   * Line 8 -- April and MacBeth tags
   * Line 10 Deep learning inference on video -- expand
      * Not yet ready to incorporate quantization optimization, but for tutorial
   * Line 12 RISC-V optimization -- company dropped out, but get support from whole University group so we can go ahead -- lines for acceleration of deep learning
   * Line 18 Data augmentation
* Blog
   * Dimitry blog posts in Russian, translating (Deep style augmentation)
   * Several other posts are being studied
   * Over several months
   * Will allow initial, limited blog cross post
* RISC-V
   * Some initial support already for Friday Tech meeting
* Website
   * Will be fixing some of the drop downs
   * Special blog button top right


### *__To Dos__*
* Gary
  - [x] See if Reza wants to co-mentor

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-04-08

### *__Minutes__*
* this and the next week main task: select best students for each project (right now about 14-15 potentially interesting projects with good candidates). 
* xperience.ai:
  * OpenCV blog - several people already answered. At least 2 people agreed to write posts on OpenCV.org
  * Working on PRs: since OpenCV release is out, ~8 PRs can now be merged.
* Intel:
  * OpenCV 4.3.0 is out
  * continuing working on adding Audio support to OpenCV
  * parallel Gaussian blur (there are faster alternatives)
  * visual trackers. Found several datasets to estimate the quality
* OpenCV hackathon in May is still feasible
* Stefano: made some review
* Vincent: glad that 4.3.0 is out! Will work on updating the internal build

### *__To Dos__*
* Finalize GSoC selection
<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-04-03

## __*Agenda*__
* Google Summer of Code 
* OpenJPEG
* OpenCV blog: weekly results 

### *__Minutes__*
* GSoC proposals evaluation is underway: Alexander will add candidates links to PR, Xperience team will choose their own candidates 
* OpenJPEG: looks like encoder using lossless compression parameters - Vadim Levin's task 
* OpenCV blog: several people responded, one of the potential authors is starting work on the article

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-04-01

### *__Minutes__*
* Note that the GSoC timeline is shifted by a week, now updated on the [ideas page](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/GSoC_2020)
   * Go through OpenCV [proposals](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/dashboard/)
   * [Mentors only list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/opencv_mentors_2020)
   * [All proposal list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/opencv-gsoc-2020) 
   * [Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oankH0GgiuV7iDs5z3JAxNwTuXbc4mmf2KSF2sScxQo/edit#gid=1895778263) Vadim take first pass
   * OpenCV.cn group actively working on ARM optimizations for DNN
* Blog -- spreading word about new papers to more 
* Everyone is now working from home world-wide
* Vladimir is OpenCV team manager,
* Dmitry is the Graph API team leader, need to connect this with data augmentation

### *__To Dos__*
* Vadim
  - [ ] First pass on spreadsheet
* Gary
  - [ ] Get OSVF membership legal sheet
  - [ ] Get in foils to Tong Li

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-03-27

## __*Agenda*__
* List of prospective blog’s authors was preparing
* [Feature request #162898](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/16298)
* [One more FAQ page](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/blame/master/doc/faq.markdown)
* PR's [#14971](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/14971), [#11885](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/11885)

### *__Minutes__*
* [OpenCV release changelog placeholder](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/ChangeLog#version430)
* Lydia is sending invitations to OpenCV blog 
* [Feature request #162898](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/16298): Vadim Pisarevsky will look at this task and  choose between Eigen and Lapack
* [One more FAQ page](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/blame/master/doc/faq.markdown): need to remove 
* [PR #14971](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/14971): need to write evaluation proposal (or feature request possible ways to extend image codecs (video codecs) to accept different parameters types and close after that - Vadim Levin 
* [PR #11885](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/11885):  refresh future request,extend feature request with to take into account different camera types and mention different solvers [#15650](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/15650)


## 2020-03-25

### *__Minutes__*

* OpenAI labs proposed patch for T-engine support for Android (integrated).
* Need to restructure OpenCV.org a bit: add platforms (Intel, ARM, etc.) with the relevant information
* Students started submitted proposals. Need to collect all of them into a private spreadsheet visible to all the mentors and start collecting reviews in order to select the best proposals.
* xperiance.ai:
  * merged GSoC 2019 PR (into opencv_contrib)
  * wchar_t support: added to FAQ
* Intel core team:
  * OpenCV 4.3.0 is being prepared, should be in the beginning of April
  * nGraph API support in DNN (added dedicated CMake flag)
  * new DNN-based samples: tracking, scissors, optical flow (in progress: FlowNet 2.0)
* Stefano: need to change "fail-on-the-first-problem" OpenCV DNN importer policy in order to get the complete report about potential problems in each particular ONNX model.
* Edgar: data augmentation project is still very interesting and relevant. Gary: will copy it from GSoC 2019 to GSoC 2020.

## 2020-03-20

## __*Agenda*__
* Release Status
* PRs:
  * Reworked and finalized [OpenJPEG 2000](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16494)
  * Multi-channel Mat and scalar handling (MatExpr) [#16739](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/16739)
  * MatExpr + InputArray [#16653](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16653)
  * Do not copy standalone IPP libraries to install for static builds [#16769](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16769)
  * Add some docstrings to gen2.py [#16767](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16767)
  * Update resize.cpp [#16810](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16810)

### *__Minutes__*
* OpenCV 4.3.0 release status
   * OpenCV release may be moved for 1 week. Target date - the first week of April

* GSoC 2020:
   * Vadim sent requests to all mentors to join the GSoC platform
   * The team will review and vote for submissions to prepare request to Google till April 13.

* PRs:
  * Multi-channel Mat and scalar handling (MatExpr) [#16739](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/16739) - Vadim Pisarevsky will look at the problem
  * MatExpr + InputArray [#16653](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16653)
    * MatExpr + InputArray interop is not properly implemented.
    * Vadim Pisarevsky treats the solution as potentially dangerous.
    * To be merged after 4.3.0 release.
    * MatExpr behavior can be reworked for 5.0.
  * Add some docstrings to gen2.py [#16767](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16767) would be closed. The patch does not bring sufficient add-value.
  * Update resize.cpp [#16810](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16810)
    * The problem looks like undocumented IPP behavour. Original code is correct. AI Alexander Alekhin to communicate with the IPP team and resolve the issue.
   * Alexander Smorkalov will close the PR with note that documentation issue is communicated to the IPP team.
   * [opencv_contrib#2306](https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib/pull/2306) patch proposed to be merged as as is. Alexander Smorkalov will fix the second part of the submission [contrib, #2247](https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib/pull/2247)


## 2020-03-18

### *__Minutes__*
* xperience.ai: number of open PRs went down to about 50 and stabilized there. Most of "low-hanging fruit" PR have been closed and in average the open PRs are much newer than before. So it just needs consistent maintenance to keep this number that low.
* PlaidML support in G-API is still very basic, at just concept level.
* In TF add-ons (which are similar in status to "opencv_contrib") there is growing amount of image processing functionality. It's probably going to be expanded further during GSoC 2020. On the other hand, most of this functionality is either using OpenCV or not very efficient.
* The text recognition project in OpenCV GSoC 2020 does not necessarily require biLSTM. Stefano will reply the student question about it.
* The patch with DNN acceleration for ARM has been merged, should be a part of OpenCV 4.3.0. It supports only Linux ARM. The patch with Android support has been submitted and is under review.
* Intel core team updates:
   * OpenCV 4.3.0 should come out on time, i.e. 1st week of April. But OpenVINO release might be delayed by about 2 weeks.
   * Magnetic Lasso algorithm implemented. The PR has been submitted.
   * DiamPRN object tracking network, together with the demo, has been converted to ONNX; DNN has been modified to support it. The corresponding PR is being prepared. The algorithms run at 30FPS on CPU!
   * QR detector is being improved to better detect QR codes in the case of radial distortion. PR is in progress.
   * DynamicFusion implementation is being improved.

## 2020-03-13

## __*Agenda*__
* OpenCV 4.3.0 release status
* OpenCV development process
* Blog posts & schedule
* PRs for discussion

### *__Minutes__*
* OpenCV 4.3.0 release status
   * Release will be launch at the end of month
* Process improvements:
   * Lydia will send invitation to paper authors  to contribute to OpenCV blog from OpenCV group
* PRs discussion:
   * [#16759](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16759) will be closed
   * [#16733](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16733) need validation and to launch the script
   * [#13869](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/13869) PR will be assigned to Vadim Pisarevsky
   * [#16494](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16494), [#16524](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16524) combine them into one PR
   * [15650](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/15650) do not merged, back to this PR after release
   * [#15214](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/15214) need documentation

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-03-11

## __*Agenda*__
* GSoC

### *__Minutes__*
* GSoC
   * https://opencv.org/google-summer-of-code-internship/
   * Mentors until End of May
   * SIFT
      * ASIFT
   * Tensor Flow
* OpenCV 4.3 may be released end of March
   * Better inference speed on ARM for DNN!
* Intel support for embedded to use
   * Regular build for ARM
   * Currently Rasberry Pi can be used with OpenVino+OpenCV+Neural Compute Stick (Movidius)
   * [Keem Bay](https://www.tomshardware.com/news/intel-announces-movidius-keem-bay-vpu), which is ARM+Movidius SoC, announced in 2019
* Model Zoo
   * OpenZoo open
   * Open (Intel) Model zoo -- more optimized for Intel chipset
   * https://github.com/opencv/open_model_zoo/tree/master/models
      * DNN with OpenVino backend can run all models from both Open Model Zoo
      * DNN compiled w/o OpenVINO can run only the non-Intel models (ONNX, Caffe, TF etc.)
      * Hard to know what OpenVino accelerator doesn't cover (because of the "fail as soon as possible" implementation ideology in OpenCV DNN engine)

### *__To Dos__*
* All
  - [ ] sign up mentors and get students

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-02-26

## __*Agenda*__
* GSoC considerations
* Blog
   * Note that GSoC isn't even there yet. How to keep this fresh?
* Linux foundation considerations

### *__Minutes__*
* GSoC considerations
   * Risk-V, Ransac have good potential already. Optimization CUDA
   * nGraph vs Graph API in OpenCV
   * What process should we use for GSoC this year?
      * What do we do to get students? Don't want too many low quality
         * 
      * How to vet mentors?
         * 
* Blog
   * Note that GSoC isn't even there yet. How to keep this fresh?
* Linux foundation considerations


#### Release
OpenCV release is coming. This week is soft code freeze stage, the next week -- strong freeze. New features like OpenJPEG support will be merged right after release.

#### Hackathon
Alexander is working on public Hackathon report. Hopefully, it'll be ready till the next call.

#### Process improvements
1. FAQ page on Wiki can be useful for beginners and as a solution for often questions and bug reports. The page should contain question or problem and link to ticket, answers.opencv.org, Stackoverflow or any other page with discussion.
2. It's time to update issue template in code OpenCV repository. AI to @Alexander Smorkalov to work on it. Important ideas:
   - Add checklist with 3 items:
     - I updated to latest OpenCV version -- master branch for 4.x and 3.4 branch for 3.x and the issue is still there.
     - I checked the problem with FAQ, open issues, answers.opencv.org, Stackoverflow, etc...
     - There is reproducer and related data (network for dnn, test images, videos, etc).
   - Extra description should be done with xml/html comments to have short description in ticket.
   - It's possible to use a different template for bugs and features.
   - 3.4 branch is for bugs only. New features should go to master (4.x releases).
3. Ideas for blog at OpenCV.org (Alexander plans to work on tech things, Lydia -- relations with external people):
   - Promote Google Summer of Code topics as blog post with problem statements and related work. Publish GSoC results in the same way.
   - Publish technical notes about OpenCV like usage with different cameras, for different embedded platforms, python and java bindings, etc. The articles can be merged to some documentation page or wiki page.
   - Involve speakers of well known conferences to publish texts on OpenCV.org.
   - it's a good idea to promote blog posts over OpenCV mailing list.

#### PRs discussion
   -  RFC: Jpeg2000 OpenJPEG port (#16494, #16524) -- AI to Alexander Alekhin to list all remaining items. The patch can be merged only after release.
   - Support of Unicode file paths under Windows #13368, related task  #4292, #5631. - It's decided that OpenCV team will not add functions with wchar_t and std::wstring. UTF8 can be used with std::string and standard C/C++ and imdecode/imencode can be used to work with custom symbols. As alternative OpenCV can support C++ iostream API. AI to @Alexander Smorkalov: close the PR, add item to FAQ page and close related tickets and topics with proper description and links. See https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/13368#issuecomment-509225982
   - OpenCV addons #6722 -- closed.
   - Update test_fitellipse.cpp resolving #10270 #16426 -- closed.

#### FFmpeg support
1. OpenCV cannot be compiled with some old versions, even if they are mentioned in the code.
2. @Vadim Levin will collect information about FFMPEG versions in different Linux distributions and user tickets to understand minimal version that should be supported. Current idea for FFmpeg baseline: Ubuntu14.04 or Ubuntu 16.04.
3. It's reasonable to support some old FFmpeg versions for embedded boards that usually do not get OS update.
4. Old FFmpeg versions should be dropped in 3.4 too to resolve further merge conflicts.


### *__To Dos__*
* Gary
  - [ ] Blog post on GSoC
  - [ ] Cuda optimization person email
  - [ ] nGraph vs Graph API in OpenCV


<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-02-21

* New vision papers
* GSoC

### *__Minutes__*
* OpenCV Blog
   * Under the hood improvements cited in blog
   * DNN update blog
   * Graph api part of OpenCV
   * Blog posts now have commenting added!
   * Vision paper authors
      * Add to blog to keep vision news
      * Once a week newsfeed?
* Best of classical vision 
   * That beats deepnets in speed and/or accuracy (SIFT)
   * Color calibration -- Macbeth detectors
   * ASIFT
      * Color sift
   * Susan algorithm for edge detection Finds good features in the presence of noise

**Hackathon**
1. Core team continue work on merge of hackathon PRs the next week. Remaining PRs contain a lot of changes.
2. Hackathon label will be there and the team will add it to tasks for the next Hackathon.
3. AI to @Alexander Smorkalov write article to OpenCV blog on hackathon results.AI to @Alexander Smorkalov collect information about major hackathon contributors.

**PRs discussion**
   - Support audio module [#16578](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16578). Audio support is an experimental feature and the team decided to move development to opencv_contrib. The module support motivation -- simple wav files i/o and basic processing to use with DNN module.
   - Expose maxIters in findFundamentalMat [#16498](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16498) -- useful change. Some API adjustment is required. AI to Alexander & Vadim review and comment.
   - build: OpenCV includes [#12481](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/12481). -- To be closed.
   - Allow access to CUDA pointers for interoperability with other libraries [#16513](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16513) -- .data field of GpuMat should be exposed to Python bindings as read-only property. GPU memory ownership should be documented.

**Algorithm Quality Benchmark**
 * Vadim Pisarevsky works on concept of algorithms quality benchmarking. Major targets: non DNN algos like RANSAC, Hough Transform, pattern detection (chessboard, checkerboard), QR code detection, etc.

**Discussed ideas:**
   - Several images are included into opencv_extra and used as data for unit testing. Major dataset is not included.
   - OpenCV provides some tools & scripting to run benchmark and compute a score. Well known datasets & benchmarks can be used.
   - The benchmark or subset can be added to CI as an optional check,
   - The initial work can be done in the scope of GSoC, internship or academic project.
   - There is a project with relevant scope. https://www.sotabench.com/ runs benchmark for DL models and publish it. https://github.com/catalyst-team/catalyst/ runs testing without GPU in an efficient way.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-02-12

## __*Agenda*__
* Considering the [Linux foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/) ... and/or the [Linux AI foundation](https://landscape.lfai.foundation/)
   * Meeting later to(my)day. Want to generate list of questions

### *__Minutes__*

Questions I have, and we should add to

**Background**: OpenCV's goal is to drive/accelerate the beneficial uses of computer vision in society.That's the core mission that I want to freedom to achieve. It goes beyond just a codebase, though it is that too. 

* I need a much better understanding of how the funding works for a project under the Linux foundation vs under the Linux AI foundation?
   * In particular, I want funds raised for OpenCV to go to OpenCV and not into a "pool" from which I must then request/justify/argue for allocations. Is this OK?
   * Is that best done under LF or LFAI? Or help me understand better how this works with the understanding that I do not want a gated, or two step allocation process.
* There is an entanglement that needs to be untangled: 
   * I formed the Open Source Vision Foundation OSVF which is a 501c3 umbrella for (filed fictitious names):
      * CARLA -- an autonomous driving simulator
      * Open3D -- 3D point cloud processing (such as comes from LIDAR or other depth sensors)
      * OpenCV -- my computer vision
      * Kornia -- differential computer vision. Possibly this might combine in some way with OpenCV TBD
      * OpenSAM -- wants to join, it does SLAM -- creating 3D maps from sensors and using such maps to find and then track where you are to high precision.
   * These other teams can remain (if they desire) under OSVF, or they can be folded into the LF or LFAI under whatever terms each sub-group can agree on. They each have independent technical teams and it would be up to them ... I didn't choose these randomly, they are all top tier quality.
* Subject to all the above, I really want to understand how OpenCV under LF.org would work. 
   * We raise $N. What part does the LF take or LFAI take? 
   * What resources are at OpenCV's disposal 
      * Legal questions? 
      * Accountants? 
      * PR?
      * ...
   * Many big company names give $s to the LF or LFAI it seems. Does that compete with say, getting Microsoft to donate directly to OpenCV? Or is that some pool which OpenCV could access? How does this work?
* Legal attacks:
   * Let's say someone asserts a trademark, or a patent, or some lawsuit against OpenCV. Does the LF take up the fight? 
   * Let's say under whatever theory, this someone goes after me personally as a founder/director/whatever of OpenCV. 
      * My problem? 
      * Or LF (a) defends me? (b) indemnifies me?
   * Compliance with or dealing with possible US gov interference in the project, for example in the future imposing AI code restrictions etc.
* I have a lot of questions about my freedom of action under LF as to running OpenCV
   * I'm paying a developer and part of a developer's manager's time to a consulting group. That consulting group offers the developer's and manager's time at cost. My first priority is expanding this group to a minimum of 3 developers, but really targetting having many more: 10 or even more depending on funding. 
      * These contractors are provided at cost to OpenCV (substantially below market).
   * Similar for interns. Every year, OpenCV enters Google's Summer of Code ... I want to run OpenCV's Summer of Code.
   * I'd like the option to directly support research. That is, I have many academic contacts and want the freedom of action, should a topic/research and willing professor be found that I could support that student to fill some gap resulting in a contribution of that algorithm/code into OpenCV. 
   * When financially able, I'd like to be able to afford a full-time admin that would take care of the million things that barely get done now or dropped by me to free me up to focus on driving the library's direction.
   * Right now, I run this out of my house, borrowed conference rooms and coffee shops. If finances allow, I want to have an office (the official address is really my accountant's office right now).
   * I and others will attend academic conferences, propose workshops, run tutorials, staff booths etc at existing conferences and tradeshows. This may induce travel, room, conference and other expenses.
   * We may sponsor contests, hackathons, host datasets, collect or create datasets for these functions or to advance the field.
   * I'm fine with attending, participating, giving tutorials etc in LF conferences or events, but I want the freedom, if we choose, to host our own conference, workshop or events.
   * I want to be able to keep mailing lists of people who sign up.
   * I'd like to create a "Open and Free Contributory license". That is, for people using the library for commercial purposes, this would be a voluntary nominal annual payment (for example, $20 or whatever amount desired) per head. This would clearly state this is not required and in no way enforced but is merely a voluntary contribution to give back to the library.
   * **Any problem with any of the above?**
* Website
   * Without a lot of flack or delay, we want to control OpenCV's website (wherever it clicks through from the LF site) and of course, github repository + wiki. Put up a blog, A/B test donation buttons, host or point to content in accordance with OpenCV's mission. If a member of LF, I don't mind it being within a LF frame/logo etc. Problems? Procedures?
* Revenue w/in mission
   * Books, whether written by OpenCV or not, directly sold or click through. These would be certified -- that is, we think they are of sufficient quality in important areas for people's understanding of computer vision or issues related to it.
   * Camera, Smart Camera, chips/board HW. Similar to the above. We'd certify hardware of high quality and give an honest assessment of important issues (outdoor/indoor/waterproof, frame rate, power, accuracy etc) and in turn, we'd get a membership fee and click through share of sales.
   * We are toying with offering Kickstarters for features. Basically, users vote with their money for features they want to be developed. If the money raised is sufficient to develop that feature, we do it, else the money is returned. 
   * Courseware. We already have professional courseware that contributes 20% to the library. The courseware is  of very high quality and so OpenCV links to it in return for 20%
* Foreign operation
   * Especially China? Developers there, how to work with?
* Contacts
   * I want to talk to some existing projects.
* OpenCV Brand management inside LF or LFAI?
* General specific donation? For example, can we put up a donate button that goes to OpenCV specifically?
* If we are funded through the LF or LFAI
* If things don't work out, extracting OpenCV from LF or LFAI: Can we and how do we do that (decision process)?
   * If we want to hedge, can we keep a foundation "home" externally but mainly run internally with the "home" just a "escape path" for the above.
* Trademark? We don't have? Can we or should we attempt to get? What if someone tries to "trump" our trademark?
   * Defense against transfer and then attacks that we don't want.
* OpenCV structure is complex
   * LearnOpenCV
   * Intel team ... OpenVino team
   * China team OpenCV.cn
   * Can other sites live separately?
* Other vision projects ... cannibalization of code or competition by other ops w/in LF or LFAI?
   * Where is the place where we provide technical decisions of what is in or out of the code
   * Only pull requests ... if contribution, what control over that? Intel uses graph API for example, then pulls or changes it w/o any control/consultation?
   * Where do we decide roadmap? OpenCL

* Roadmap
   * [OpenCV Evolution Proposals](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/Evolution-Proposals)
   * Develop evolution proposals
      * We can devote occasional meetings to this

* I'm forming a contracting consulting company, **OpenCV.ai**, in AI broadly and Computer Vision in particular whose moral intent it is to contribute some % of profits to OpenCV.org. It could be made a nominal subsidiary or partner of OpenCV.org if any of the above must be instead hosted on a for-profit site.



* Hackathon:

1. Lydia joined Xperience AI team in role of program manager. Welcome Lydia!
2. Hackathon is in progress. The most important contribution is OpenJPEG library integration for JPEG200 support (#16494, #16524). Core team will work on PR review and merge for the next week. Will discuss final status next time.
3. PR & Tickets handling process: PR template implemented and merged. The next steps are:
   - answers.opencv.org resurrection. Stackoverflow is possible alternative. The major goal is to attract community and resolve basic questions there instead of issue tracker. Xperience AI team will try to restart community there.
   - "Good First Issue" label for easy to implement tickets to attract students and newcomers.
4. @Vadim Pisarevsky found good dataset for HoughCircles algorithm testing and rewrote some pieces. It's a good idea to assess some functions and algorithms with public datasets and publish/track score. Possible subjects are: QR codes, chess boards and other calibration patterns, RANSAC. To be discussed on the next meetings in details. AI to @Alexander Smorkalov and @Vadim Pisarevsky prepare an agenda for the next meeting.
5. PRs discussion:
   - core: CV_STRONG_ALIGNMENT macro #16463 - the solution requires extra job on CI. AI to @Alekhin, Alexander add extra job to CI and merge the patch.
   - cmake: split opencv_modules.hpp #12549 - to be merged.
   - Fix bugs in arithm_op() for InputArray (src == dst) case #13570 - to be closed. The patch tries to add fake inplace processing support to functions that are not designed for it. Extra memory allocation and copies are not reasonable for most cases. AI to @Vadim Pisarevsky to close the PR with justification.

### *__To Dos__*
* Name
  - [ ] todo




<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-02-05

## __*Agenda*__
* Linux foundation
* Dev Group CN
* GSoC


### *__Minutes__*
* Linux foundation
   * Need more information
* Dev Group CN
   * OpenCV on edge
      * Edge
      * Risk-V
   * Offline courses emphasis on edge
   * Online courses emphasis on edge
* Hackathon
   * Developers
   * New people
   * Vadim
   * Organize another hackathon
   * Create schwag for it (send)
* Schwag
   * Revamp/Renew
      * Coats, T-shirts, stickers
   * Store
* Graph API
   * Blog or professional
      * Blog
* Pull requests
   * Down to 56 
      * basically, for the team, this seems to be the equilibrium, as many closed as opened
   * New Program Manager, 
      * Lidia taking care of priorities
* Need to moderate comments on blog
   * Use discuss as a blog platform
   * Medium or Github.io Seth typepad


### *__To Dos__*
* Name
  - [ ] todo

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-01-30

## __*Agenda*__
* GSoC
* Linux Foundation
* Update

### *__Minutes__*
* 

#### Updates 

1. OpenCV team submitted all required papers for Google Summer of Code.
2. Hackathon announcement is published, the team is ready. Alexander Alekhin will work on PRs review. AI to @Vadim Pisarevsky to add QA part to Google Group.
3. PR template from Alexander looks good enough. There are some comments in PR. AI to @Vadim Pisarevsky: propose legal wording about license. AI to @Alexander Smorkalov to move all links, details and recommendations to the "How To Contribute" page and add single link to PR template.
4. Initial work on profiles for  cv::VideoWriter support is done. Prepared codec parameters, implemented script for their optimization. Implementation will be submitted right after refactoring.
5. PRs & tickets discussion:
   - Enable 2-channel arrays in resize tests ([PR #16189](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16189)) -- the tests open several bugs in current implementation. AI for @Alekhin, Alexander list all remaining items in PR to do it during the hackathon.
   - Python module: replace config.py files by config.ini ([PR #16008](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16008)). Config.py contains logic to load proper modules for Intel Python, Conda, etc and it cannot be replaced by a plain config file. The expected behavior can be achieved with CMake options. The PR is closed.
   - add REDUCE_SUM2 ([PR #13879](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/13879)). Proposed for the Hackathon. Remaining items: disable sanity checks for new test cases and squash commits for merge.
   - VideoIO classes refactoring ([PR #16242](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16246)). Vadim will finish until the next meeting.
   - Fix issue [#6450 (ios) (PR #Fix issue #6450 (ios) (PR #15464)15464)](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/15464). The patch is useful AI to @Vadim Pisarevsky to fix warning and merge the patch during the hackathon.
   - Issue [#13602](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/13602) GaussianBlur does not support border type wrap. WRAP mode implementation does not make sense, documentation update only. Added to hackathon scope.
   - Issue [#15499](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/15499) CAP_PROP_FRAME_WIDTH/HEIGHT swapped. The actual issue reason is metadata in videos. Renamed the ticket to describe the issue properly and added the next steps there. Added to the Hackathon scope.
   - Issue [#9392](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/9392) Reference to non-existent parameter name in the documentation of StereoSGBM::create (Still needs the decision). Renaming and documentation update is required. Alexander listed all remaining items on the ticket.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-01-29

## __*Agenda*__
* Browser
* GSoC
* Updates

### *__Minutes__*
* Browser -- the below can help make vision integral to browsers that we may engage with
   * Talk with Mozilla about this (GSoC project? Probably too involved or complex)
      * WebGPU (working group inside W3C), 
      * WebAssembly (expand WebAssembly outside of the browser, Byte code alliance, WASI standard -- extensions) 
      * WebSIMD (in progress, efforts happening, but few people. Extraction layer over SIMD, threading, long vector instruction)
      * Compiler for optimization/vision OpenNP, LLDM (GSoC) ... but looks maybe too big for a student
* GSoC
   * Application is already complete
   * [Ideas list](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/GSoC_2020#opencv-project-ideas-list)
      * Now 15 ideas, the application is complete
      * Adding Tensor flow connection idea
      * OpenNP lldm ... use compiler to optimize vision in browser
         * But probably too complex for a student project
   * We have strong people for overhauling RANSAC. OpenCV foundation may extend student support for this beyond GSoC
* China team
   * Paused by Chinese new year and Coronavirus
   * Collaborating with some startup in China to accelerate OpenCV DNN for ARM. Very promising results. The patch will hopefully be ready and integrated by OpenCV 5 or even earlier.
   * Looking for extra engineers ... again delayed
   * HW for build factory ... also delayed
   * Shiqi ... discussing adapting courseware to Chinese. Not delayed since can be done at home
* Kickstarter for features or toolboxes
   * We should come up with a list we can try this
* Hackathon
   * Feb 2nd
   * Set up a "thankyou" page, and post hackathon thanks
   * Can send now to mailing list and blog list

* **Update**
   * RISC-V close to RISC pipe committee (they may be the mentors for the idea)
   * Down to 62 pull requests, now more new than old pull requests
      * Probably need to track the average age of pull requests soon
   * Make sure every pull requests is attended to
      * Make a formal process for the response -- what's wrong, what to do if abandoned by the contributor
      * Looking into other projects, how they do it: finding -- no formal processes. Linux is just by fiat by the main guy
         * We want aliveness response
         * Check that it's 3.4 or later
   * What should be done for a pull requests
   * Preparing for hackathon, can provide list

1. Vadim Pisarevsky could not join today. The first and second agenda items were skipped.
2. Hackathon announcement has been published on [opencv.org](http://opencv.org/). Thanks, Satya for post promotion.
3. PR handling process was discussed with Alexander Alekhin. Major items:
   - Stale bot produces to many spam e-mails for maintainer, very detailed configuration is required. The idea is postponed.
   - 2 weeks is too short to wait for PR author, e.g. maintainer or author vacations.
   - We can add a checklist and links to test examples directly to the PR template. It's a useful solution and works as a reminder. AI to @Alexander Smorkalov proposes an alternative PR template.
   - Proposed new tag "Discussion Required" for PRs. All PRs with the tag are discussed by the core team before actual review and integration. The tag is designed for PRs with suspicious changes, PRs with small value and changes that breaks existing logic or API. AI to @Alexander Smorkalov introduce the tag on Github and add notes to the Contribution guide.
4. PRs discussion status:
   - optimize cvCeil and cvFloor in fase_math.hpp #16160 -- closed as incomplete; no author replies on questions.
   - core: Workaround flip horiz [#16152](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16152) -- the PR highlights memory alignment issue on ARM v7 for vectorized code. The PR cannot be merged as-is. AI to @Alekhin, Alexander to file a ticket with a detailed description, propose an alternative solution and then close the original PR.
   - Add package for CMake project #16322 -- The patch rejected as we do not maintain it and most of package management systems store metafiles and extra patches on their side.
   - Fix bugs in arithm_op() for InputArray (src == dst) case. #13570 -- To be discussed with Vadim Pisarevsky.
   - export IMG decoders/encoders #8511 -- To be discussed with Vadim Pisarevsky.

### *__To Dos__*
* Gary
  - [ ] Set up opencv-gsoc 2020 mailing list
  - [ ] Ask lawyers about export licese
* Satya
  - [ ] Send site editing access to Gary
  - [ ] Contact Microsoft about supporting better OpenCV experience on Microsoft
* Vladamir 
  - [ ] Post Adam tracker to Ideas list
  - [ ] Post audio support to Ideas list

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-01-22

## __*Agenda*__
* Hackathon
* GSoC
* Ransac

### *__Minutes__*
* Hackathon
   * opencv-dev-forum@opencv.org
   * Finalizing the text right now, can publish it now
   * Will be posted to site tomorrow (blog & notification)
   * Banner will also reflect this
   * Hackathon announcement on Google drive: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lOp1HbEcCQFkO1ydGYI_k7UwHE_0sVRmZTXY2vmVycc/edit?usp=drivesdk
* Website
   * Change order of blog vs buttons
   * Look at font or attention interest site
* GSoC
   * Now officially applied!
   * Feature 
      * [ASIFT](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/blob/master/samples/python/asift.py) good for perspective distortion
      * Data augmentation module from original GSoC
          * Accelerate taking data set and augment dataset good one to add
   * Calibration
      * Color/Macbeth
      * Lighting with spheres in scene
   * Installing OpenCV Contrib with Windows (exec)
      * Adding NuGet
      * C++ interface
      * Video capture
      * Better tools for Windows environment
   * Integration of Adam tracker in GSoC to enable
   * Audio I/O support
      * Should DNN be extended to text and speech? 
* Got down to 60 pull requests
   * Created a metric for response time from pull or bug
      * Finite time for author to reply, or else we can fix or cancel
          * Discussing
   * Have already manually changed some older pull requests to catch up
* China team
   * User from China: What is OpenCV regulation terms (export license) EAR99 label(?)
   * Can we officially state this? Might want to do as [Apache](https://www.apache.org/licenses/exports/) does ECCN 5D002 exported 

* Updates

1. GSoC 2020 status.
2. Hackathon [scope](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AHackathon).
3. PR & Tickets process [proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15zg7H-IDrxe2OiWHBXGIx-61n0ChLQJWenBkmI7tE8U/edit#heading=h.evsdgqw1vc47) (WIP). Technical solutions and process ideas:
   - Use Stale bot for notifications: https://github.com/apps/stale
   - Add item to contribution guide that OpenCV team can close PR, if it's not complete and abandoned more than 2 weeks.
   - Add item to contribution guide that PRs with RFC label are discussed by core team and can be rejected.
4. PRs for discussion:
   - optimize cvCeil and cvFloor in fase_math.hpp [#16160](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16160)
   - core: Workaround flip horiz [#16152](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16152)
   - Add package for cmake project [#16322](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16322)
   - Fix bugs in arithm_op() for InputArray (src == dst) case. [#13570](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/13570)
   - export img decoders/encoders [#8511](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/8511)

### *__To Dos__*
* Gary
  - [ ] Set up opencv-gsoc 2020 mailing list
  - [ ] Ask lawyers about export licese
* Satya
  - [ ] Send site editing access to Gary
  - [ ] Contact Microsoft about supporting better OpenCV experience on Microsoft
* Vladamir 
  - [ ] Post Adam tracker to Ideas list
  - [ ] Post audio support to Ideas list


<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>
opencv-dev-forum@opencv.org

## 2020-01-15

## __*Agenda*__
* GSoC

### *__Minutes__*
* DNN has Cuda support now
   * Davis King mentored
   * Mentor or student
   * Put in whatever is necessary
   * Cuda backend (has more stuff/layers has more than C++)
      * Add more layers to C++ (Expose C++ from the DNN project)
* Add to model zoo (import new model)
   * How much work is very difficult to estimate
   * Important topology
   * Help to propose what and how
   * DNN importer doesn't give good failure messages for import problems
* ONNX support (importer) parameters and layer types
* Calibration
* New classic computer vision algorithms
* Experience
   * For now, keeping pull requests current
   * Want to hire more staff for addressing tools
* Virtual Hackathon February 3rd or 10th, 2020
   * ONNX versioning
   * Import failure -- know best list (analysis tool)
   * Spotty ONNX version coverage
   * Welcome to join -- one week do good work for OpenCV
      * Ideas
* China development team
   * 4 people assistant, Vadim, 2 people and 2 people coming ... like 5 engineers
      * Conversion to Chinese
      * OpenCV on edge
      * Github extension to another platform China to China
      * Leverage optimization for Arm (maybe 10 engineers)
* Linux foundation: Better camera support (they don't use video for linux)
   * Linux AI project
   * Intel effort for ngraph runtime ... will be presenting today about intent
   * Linux foundation AI for ONNX 
      * ML layer mailing list (independent from Google)
      * ARM layer
* Can OpenCV sponsor/be reproducibility track?
   * Reproducible
* Getting pull requests down 
   * Clearing out the older one
   * Formal process for pull requests for (2 week reply time) to approve this Friday
      * Other big library policies on this

### *__To Dos__*
* Gary
  - [x] Apply for GSoC OpenCV
  - [x] Finish ideas page
  - [x] Connect with Linux foundation
* Anna
  - [x] Communicate Hackathon to Satya/Gary for publication on site


<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-01-10

## __*Agenda*__
*

### *__Minutes__*

My notes from the meeting today:
1. The team agreed  WW06 (Feb 2-9) as a preliminary timeframe for OpenCV Hackathon. @A lexander S morkalov  and @V adim L evin will create short list of tickets for the hackathon for the next meeting.
2. V adim L evin has done serious cv::VideoCapture refactoring that breaks compatibility. AI to @A lekhin, A lexander and @V adim P isarevsky to review PR to discuss the solution on the next meeting.
3. Most of fixes from V adim L evin for Python bindings have been merged. @V adim L evin will split remaining PR on 2: existing bug fixes and new functionality. The second one will be discussed later.
4. Abandoned PRs:
- BFGS and L-BFGS optimization methods: AI to @A lexander S morkalov  to close. The implementation is buggy.
- Clang format: AI to @A lekhin, A lexander to close the PR with comments. The formatter introduces a lot of changes in code and some of them are not well readable.
- Objdetect module const correctness: AI to @A lekhin, Alexander to close the PR and related ticket with resolution "will not fix". Some object detectors are not constant by design and not thread safe. We can force detectors interface and overcome mutability problem with thread local variables and other C++ hacks, but it introduces non-obvious behavior.
5. OpenCV 5.0 is planned for release in June-July time frame. The release is aligned to 20th anniversary of the project.
6. A lexander S morkalov started document to collect common replies to PRs: AI to @A lekhin, A lexander  to join and extend the document.


### *__To Dos__*
* Name
  - [ ] todo

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>



<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>
# [[2019]] Archived
<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2019-12-18

## __*Agenda*__
* Meeting times
* GSoC
* Data augmentation

### *__Minutes__*
* Might have to change the [meeting time](https://www.worldtimeserver.com/meeting-planner-times.aspx?&L0=US-CA&Day=18&Mon=12&Y=2019&L1=RU-MOW&L2=CN&L3=ES&L4=&L5=&L6=&L7=)
   * Maybe 11pm California time is the only time that really works out around the world.
* GSoC Ideas
   * Fixing bindings everywhere
      * Issues with binaries, C++11 is not supported in bindings always
      * Want this fixed
   * Ransac improvements
      * [Paper](http://cmp.felk.cvut.cz/~mishkdmy/slides/EECVC2019_Mishkin_image_matching.pdf)
      * [PyRansac](https://github.com/ducha-aiki/pyransac)
   * Fiducial Patterns: robust
   * Calibration improvements (utilities)
   * ONNX, some version
      * Whatever ONNX covers should be runnable in DNN
         * Intel not whole standard, but various architectures (OpenVino)
             * One Resnet 50, UNet specific
   * Data augmentation or differential rendering
* Differentiable data augmentation
* Vacations
   * Anna out 1st to 8th
   * Gary out next 2 weeks
   * => **Next meeting will be in Jan 2020**

### *__To Dos__*
* Gary
  - [ ] Meet with AWS, see if we can get a long term deal 
  - [ ] Get Chase foundation set up
  - [ ] Linux foundation AI site
  - [ ] Toyota


<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2019-12-11

## __*Agenda*__
* HW
* Verticals
* Money transfer in the future
* Linux

### *__Minutes__*
* HW
   * http://jevois.org/
      * http://ilab.usc.edu/
      * Laurent Itti - itti@pollux.usc.edu
      * http://ilab.usc.edu/itti/
   * http://www.raysharp.cn/en/
   * https://luxonis.com/
   * https://www.intelrealsense.com/?cid=sem&source=sa360&campid=2019_q2_egi_us_ntgrs_nach_revs_text-link_brand_exact_cd_realsense-realsense_o-1lngr_google&ad_group=realsense%5Eus%5Erealsense%5Eexact&intel_term=realsense&sa360id=43700043662097307&gclid=CjwKCAiAxMLvBRBNEiwAKhr-nJUI-zj98oLLk8xLaWa0KRjz9cOea_4-uukEw_Yq3KRsljIW_sOV3xoCZxwQAvD_BwE&gclsrc=aw.ds
   * ARCore https://developers.googleblog.com/2019/12/blending-realities-with-arcore-depth-api.html?m=1
   * https://developers.googleblog.com/2019/12/blending-realities-with-arcore-depth-api.html
* Verticals -- collect specialized datasets
   * Security
   * Automotive objects
   * Manufacturing defects
   * Agricultural areas
* Foreign payment
   * Going to switch banks
   * https://transferwise.com/us
   * https://www.xoom.com/
* Linux foundation
   * https://www.linkedin.com/in/ibrahimhaddad/
   * https://www.linkedin.com/company/the-linux-foundation/

### *__To Dos__*
* Gary
  - [ ] Meet with AWS, see if we can get a long term deal 
  - [ ] Get Chase foundation set up
  - [ ] Linux foundation AI site


***



[[Meeting_notes]]