# 2021  OpenCV Technical Committee

* [Markdown Syntax](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)
* OpenCV
   * [OpenCV Home Page](https://opencv.org/)
   * [OpenCV Developer Site](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki)
   * [OpenCV Meeting Notes Home](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/Meeting_notes)

[[Meeting_notes]]

# Template

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-mm-dd

## __*Agenda*__
* 

### *__Minutes__*
* 

### *__To Dos__*
* Name
  - [ ] todo

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-05-19

### *__Minutes__*

* Gary:
   * Filed all the necessary forms for GSoC (payment info etc.)
   * Separating accounts because Carla is now in a different foundation, not OSVF.
   * Big plans on expanding OpenCV foundation (robotics area is of special interest)
   * In order to increase OpenCV team, need to go to the upper level.
* Vadim:
   * The GSoC projects have been announced. Contacted a few students. Other mentors are welcome to do it as well.
   * Built and tested OpenCV on RISC-V 0.7.1 (simulator). All the core tests pass successfully. Need to acquire some real RISC-V hardware.
   * xperience.ai guys tried to use ARM server from China CI for OpenCV Python ‚Äî unsuccessfully, the connection to github is very unstable.
   * The work on Ficus 1.0 alpha is finished. But maybe postpone it a bit, create bindings for OpenCV first.
* Anna:
   * Need to buy a new ARM board to test OpenCV Python on ARM Linux.
   * Got another developer into OpenCV team, Igor. He is now working on fixing issues in some pending pull requests.
   * Andrey: Split workflow according to platforms in Github Actions.
   * Alexander: Updated OpenCV-Python readme and documentation pages after migration to OpenCV organization on Github
   * Alexander: Helped to resolve issues in OpenCV-Python repo ## 486, 472, 465, 457, 455
   * Alexander: Debugged several OpenCV-Python test issues with Andrey
   In progress:
     * Andrey: Fixing running tests in Github Actions for ‚Äú3.4‚Äù branch on ubuntu and macos.
* Alexander:
   * Hardware acceleration pull request was merged last week. Now the data stays on GPU without being copied to CPU (https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/19755)
   * Alexander is working on GTK+ backend.
   * Rostislav will mentor another 3D (loop closure project) out of GSoC.
* Shiqi:
   * Contacted GSoC student on the 3D samples project. Suggested to sync efforts, because we will have 2 projects on the same topic.
   * Yuantao is defending Master thesis this week, after that he will have more time and probably add more hardware to CI, including RISC-V.
* Vincent:
   * can co-mentor the project on improving Python bindings via type annotations.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-05-12

### *__Minutes__*

* Gary:
   * need to clarify the scope on fiducial tags detection project.
* Vadim:
   * the slots are allocated, waiting for May 18th for the official announcement.
   * finished work on Ficus tutorial; now making some final touches before alpha can be announced.
   * work on improving RISC-V RVV support and probably adding ARM v9's SVE2 should begin soon.
* Alexander:
   * Alexander A is back from vacation. He started working on UI backends (similar to video I/O backends that he did before)
   * Anna integrated DaSIAM into the tracking API, developed by AA.   
* Shiqi:
   * Model Zoo: would be useful to have. Maybe use github-lfs for it.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-05-05

### *__Minutes__*

* Gary:
   * contract between ocv.org and ocv.org.cn need to be finalized and will hopefully be finalized soon.
* Vadim:
   * the min/max number of GSoC slots are requested, waiting while the request is processed.
   * several related to each other RISC-V RVV/SVE2 activities are going on.
* Anna:
   * OpenCV Python release was updated. Announcement is expected next week.
   * Issue with Java bindings on ARM (OpenCV China CI) is being investigated now.
   * Github actions will be used to test OpenCV Python on ARM.
   * Alexander: reviewed CI code for OpenCV-Python release 4.5.2 and 3.4.12. Tested ARM package manually.
   * Alexander: reviewed OpenCV-Python related tickets, solved to resolve issues.
   * Andrey: Created the Github Actions pipeline for building opencv-python packages on ARM.
   * Andrey: Changing running tests in Github Actions for all platforms.
   * Andrey: Fixing an issue with java tests on the ARM machine in OpenCV CN CI.
* Alexander:
   * OpenCV Intel team members reviewed GSoC proposals.
   * Alexander A is reviewing H/W acceleration of Video I/O (TLS cleanup issue on Windows is resolved).
   * Rostislav created PR that brings elements of video homography/kinfu to 3d module.
   * Artem (intern @ intel) made some improvements in kinfu pipeline (colored kinfu flavor).
* Shiqi:
   * Evaluated several GSoC proposals.
   * Finalized face detection algorithm. face detection: data file in txt 595KB, number of parameters: 85K. Suggested to make it a separate download at CMake configure stage.
* Vincent:
   * good progress on transitioning to OpenCV 4.x.
* Stefano:
   * ready to be co-mentor for some GSoC projects.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-04-28

### *__Minutes__*

* Gary:
   * There is "tax season" in US now.
   * Calibration toolbox for OpenCV
* Vadim:
   * Gave talk on OpenCV 5 at Orbbec's organized school for students at Shenzhen University
   * Reviewed all the GSoC proposals; it looks like we have at least 8-9 good proposals.
   * Final touches to the Ficus compiler before alpha release; adding some useful functionality to the standard library
* Alexander:
   * Initial support for OneVPL (video processing library: https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneVPL) is added to OpenCV
   * Video stabilization was requested by OpenVINO team; OpenCV team proposed the solution based on opencv_contrib's videostab module
* Shiqi:
   * One of the students is now maintaining OpenCV CI China.
   * The network is now quite smooth.
* Vincent:
   * Upgrading projects to OpenCV 4.x goes on successfully.
   * Everybody whose software is used for Mars Helicopter Mission 2020 gets a badge on github.
* Stefano:
   * https://www.khronos.org/blog/an-introduction-to-vulkan-video. Cross-platform API for hardware-accelerated video encoding/decoding

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-04-23

### *__Minutes__*
*  KinFu patents issue:
   * Base algos not covered by patent are moving to core repo.
   * Pipeline and patented parts stay in contrib.
*  GSoC 2021:
   * All mentors should vote for candidates till May 4 and request minimal and maximal amount of slots from Google.
   * AI to all: submit votes to the spreadsheet
*  PRs & Issues:
   * [baremetal][aarch64] Build a baremetal OpenCV for AArch64 #19921. Extract CMake option to build OpenCV without threading framework:
      * Mutexes, TLS, etc are just stubs. cv::parallel_for just calls the functor.
      * The option could be tested with CI.
      * Add toolchain file and extra options on top of the first one with minimal changes in code.
   * Significantly reduced OpenCV binary size by disabling IPP in some funcs #13085
      * Alexander Alekhin will add CMake flag to manage IPP behavior externally.


<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-04-21

### *__Minutes__*

* Gary:
   * Gave keynote speech on OpenCV at "China Machine Learning Summit 2021" (via Zoom): http://ml-summit.org/; http://conference.boolan.com/Fs8oYp5wbKW6teSGD_YnDR8OWZgX. 600-800 participants.
   * Looking at fiducial tags solution by FB. Claimed to be much more accurate for calibration.
   * Working with Ethan R, who has created very advanced camera calibration framework (using Ceres internally). In addition to this framework there is sophisticated web infrastructure.
* Anna:
   * Julia B has joined OpenCV team. She will be working on OBJ & PLY importers for 3D module.
   * Looking for another OpenCV team member (may take ~1 month).
   * 2 GSoC 2020 students agreed to write a blog post.
   * OpenCV Python package goes through the final testing. Will be released quite soon. The versioning matches OpenCV version numbers.
* Vadim:
   * GSoC proposals: composed spreadsheet, sent the link and request for review to the mentors.
   * ficus compiler: incremental compilation mode is in progress. Should make the compiler much more convenient for big-scale projects.
* Alexander:
   * Alexander A is reviewing H/W acceleration PR for video I/O. He also merged 1D barcode PR.
   * Ubuntu 16.04 upgraded to 20.04 in CI.
   * PR on rgbd port to next branch, 3D module, will be submitted this week.
* Shiqi:
   * May hire one of the students to do part-time work for OpenCV (e.g. maintain CI system).
   * Maybe launch OpenCV hardware evaluation program: run certain set deep learning topologies on a variety of hardware and produce some numbers.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-04-16

### *__Minutes__*
*  Opencv-python -- plan to finish packages preparation on Monday-Tuesday and push release to Pypi
*  GSoC 2021:
   * Vadim is reviewing proposals and will create the summary spreadsheet with proposals this weekend. AI to all: review applications and provide feedback.
   * On May 4th we should ask Google for a certain number of slots (min-max).
   * RISC-V DNN optimization will be done inplace. There is an option to extract optimizations as ‚Äúdnn_hal‚Äù. It could be done later, as refactoring. AVX512 optimizations are done inplace and dispatched in run-time.
   * 1D Barcode support: (#2757)[https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib/pull/2757] -  in progress. Alexander Alekhin will fix minor issues by himself and merge the patch.
  * ML: "format" bug in exported models (e.g, "text" module)
      * Deprecate old part of ‚Äútext‚Äù module in contrib
      * OpenCV 3.0..OpenCV 3.2 did not add field ‚Äúformat‚Äù that is used to determine xml file version: 2.4x-style and 3.x+ style. Alexander Alekhin added check to code to print warning. Also Alexander Alekhinfixed issues with old code for text detection in contrib.
  * cv::UMat output/input in VideoCapture/VideoWriter (data stays in GPU memory): (#19755)[https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/19755] 
      * Works on Windows and Linux (properly configured environment is required).
      * It is not supported by plugins in videoio yet (TBD).
      * There is issue with multi-gpu configuration Intel + NVIDIA on laptops.
      * The feature is disabled by default.



<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>


## 2021-04-14

### *__Minutes__*

* Gary:
   * Need to review the proposals.
* Anna:
   * Had meeting with SA. Probably will have some additional Python module that will be compatible with OpenCV Python. It will provide cloud-based training solution (very high-level, user-friendly API).
   * OpenCV China CI project is complete.
   * Continue working on OpenCV 5.
* Vadim:
   * GSoC application period is over, 61 proposals submitted (~40% less than in 2020). We need to select the projects by May 18th, but request the slots on May 4th.
   * the latest touches to the ficus compiler, the last big feature before release is added (efficient vector data type based on RRB trees).
   * starting working on the tutorial
* Alexander:
   * Alexander A: 400+ PRs are being ported from OpenCV 4.x to OpenCV 5.x.
   * OpenVINO-based ARM CPU plugin - instructions on how to use it are published at opencv.org: https://opencv.org/how-to-run-yolov4-using-openvino-and-opencv-on-arm/
   * Colored KinFu algorithm has been merged to OpenCV 4.x
   * Rostislav continues to work on porting RGBD parts to OpenCV 5.x
   * Dosya RPM demos (object tracking) are refined.
* Vladimir:
   * DPC++ backend (async calls) (G-API?)
   * MediaSDK is to be replaced with OneVPL (video processing library): similar API, different name.
* Shiqi:
   * OpenCV China CI: working with admins to provide more stable connection
   * Continue working on face detector. Reduced 88K (face + 5 landmarks).
* Vincent:
   * All the code has been ported to C++ (OpenCV 4.x).
   * Started working on a small compatibility library.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>


## 2021-04-09

### *__Minutes__*
*  Release:
   * Opencv-python. Packages build is on track. All available configurations are migrated to Github Actions.
   * Xperience AI team tests packages now.
   * Grirgory will send notification when packages are available.
*  5.0 Tasks:
   * New text rendering affects videoio tests (frames with text are used). A lot of tests fails with low PSNR. Alexander Alekhin looks how to fix the issue with minimal test data changes
   * RGBD work from Rostislav is merged to contrib and should be forwarded to OpenCV next.
   * No progress with Python for now.
   * Python packages renaming:
      * Need to check import priorities: pure binary, archive, folder with pys
      * Need to check Pypi rules about it.
   * Probably need to rename opencv2/*.hpp to opencv/*.hpp. At once, contrib‚Äôs headers should be renamed to opencv_contrib/*.hpp.


<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-04-07

### *__Minutes__*

* Gary:
   * we are now in the application period
* Anna:
   * cut down team for various reasons:
      * OpenCV Python support (Windows version is being prepared, Mac is in progress)
      * The goal is to have complete OpenCV Python by OpenCV 5
      * Andrey is working on CI (polishing the remaining parts; fixing problems with ccache, found several tests that failed on RISC-V, edited instructions on how to add the new pipeline)
* Vadim:
   * ficus compiler is almost complete: all major features have been implemented. Now polishing the code, fixing bugs and writing the tutorial
* Alexander:
   * OpenCV 4.5.2, 3.4.14 have been finally released, the announcement was published.
   * Pose graph w/o Ceres dependency was merged to opencv_contrib; now should be ported to 3d module

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-04-02

### *__Minutes__*
*  Release:
   * Release tag ETA 12:00 UTC. Release binaries ETA - EOW.
   * Python release will be done next week. ETA: next Friday.
   * Final reminder: changelog on Wiki

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-03-31

### *__Minutes__*
* Vincent:
   * all the internal projects build successfully with the latest OpenCV. Now the task is to make the unit tests pass
   * heads up: ARM v9 was released.
* Gary:
   * Need to find mentors for GSoC projects and not only, a few more students have contacted us to do summer internship beyond GSoC.
* Anna:
   * ONNX diagnostic tool is finally integrated into OpenCV. Provides detailed diagnostic about the network.
   * Published announcement about GSoC 2021
   * Working with OpenCV China, polishing remaining bits
   * Discussing extensions to OpenCV python regarding training deep nets in a cloud
* Shiqi:
   * Working on optimizing the new face detector for AVX2 (8-bit compute path)
* Vadim:
   * still working on ficus, slowly switching back to opencv
   * added Ningxin Hu's idea on OpenCV.js DNN acceleration using WebNN
* Alexander:
   * OpenCV 4.5.2, 3.4.14 will be released within 1-2 days (April 1st-2nd).
   * Announcement about Intel Inference Engine ARM support was published at opencv.org: https://opencv.org/deep-learning-inference-in-openvino-on-arm/
   * opencv_contrib new functionality:
      * Edge drawing (edge & circle detection) was added
      * 1D barcode support
      * Python bindings for viz module
   * wide universal intrinsics documentation was added to docs.opencv.org.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-03-26

### *__Minutes__*
*  GSoC 2021:
   * Alexander Smorkalov will post blog on habr.com
   * Lydia will ask the remaining GSoC 2020 authors about blog post

*  PR & Issues:
   * Contrib - merge
   * Python bindings: Alexander Alekhin will file bug on Github. Alexander Smorkalov will involve Vadim Levin to resolve the issue.
   * Add reading of specific images from multipage tiff [#19780](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/19780) - Commented in PR.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-03-24

### *__Minutes__*
* Vincent:
   * finished transition to the new OpenCV. A minor compile bug with Clang 13 (on VSX).
   * another interesting implementation of universal intrinsics: https://github.com/google/highway
   * draco, 3D compression library by Google: https://github.com/google/draco
* Gary:
   * we are in the middle of GSoC 2021 project discussion.
   * need to invite more mentors.
* Shiqi:
   * contacted to 2 students from GSoC: 3D visualization and universal intrinsics.
* Vadim:
   * Ficus compiler was rewritten in Ficus. Now it's being debugged. After it's done, a few more features will be added, tutorial is written and the standard library extended a bit. When Ficus 1.0 (alpha) can be released.
   * Now slowly getting back to work on OpenCV 5
* Alexander:
   * Luibov is communicating with potential candidates for GSoC project on speech recognition
   * Rostislav is talking about 3D projects
   * Vitaly Tuzov is talking about intrinsics' project
   * OpenVINO 2021.3 has been released
   * Updated OpenCV page to inform that ARM backend of OpenVINO backend is ready (CPU & Movidius plugins).
   * Working on OpenCV 4.5.2, cleaning up issues
   * Vitaly is updating documentation on wide univ. intrinsics.
   * Rostislav finished 3D pose graph code and is now trying to make it compile on various platforms.
* Anna:
   * on sick leave

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-03-19

### *__Minutes__*
*  1. OpenCV Wiki: Lydia Kravchenko will add old GSoC and meeting minutes pages to Archive, remove years on archive page
*  2. Legal Issues:
   * a. Proposal: add Ci check for ‚Äústop‚Äù words to search for ‚ÄúGPL‚Äù, ‚Äúnon-commercial‚Äù,  etc.
*  3. GSoC
   * a. GSoC 2020 mentors: ping students and check if students are ready to prepare a blog post
   * b. GSoC 2021: Lydia Kravchenko will prepare post announcement about GSoC 2021
   * c. Point cloud format parsers -- a topic for GSoC 2021

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-03-17

### *__Minutes__*
* Shiqi:
   * trained very efficient face detection model. 1/10 of the size of the previous model (from libfacedetect). Can probably embed it into OpenCV.
* Alexander:
   * release of OpenCV 4.5.2 is being prepared.
   * several changes to OpenCV DNN to be compatible with the latest Intel's IE.
   * Rostislav is rewrote internal optimization of visual odometry from Ceres to custom function.
   * Audio support PR is submitted (Windows part, Linux part to follow).
   * At least 3 people from Intel OpenCV team can be GSoC mentors.
* Vincent:
   * Suggested to use Clang TIDY: https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/checks/performance-unnecessary-value-param.html to enforce better coding style.
   * Migration to the new OpenCV in the internal projects is going on.
* Vadim:
   * working on ficus compiler. it's approaching the first alpha release

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-03-12

### *__Minutes__*
*  1. GSoC 2021 Google Group was created 
*  2. Master RISC-V: [#18394](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/18394) -- Alternative universal intrinsics implementation for RISC-V with RVV 0.7 from THead for their hardware. Will be adjusted and merged later.
*  3. ONNX diagnostic tool: PR [#19693](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/19693) 
   * a. Document changes in public API.
   * b. Check if we need std::map<String, int> in public API.
   * c. Reduce global variables. There is a global std::set in PR. ‚ÄúWrap‚Äù with a function call to not initialize if DNN is not used.
*  4. Steps support in DNN Slice layer: PR [#19546](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/19546)
  * a. Agreed that optimization could be done as the next step with another PR.
  * b. Need to implement proper fallback from OpenCL to CPU code.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>
## 2021-03-10

### *__Minutes__*
* Gary, Vadim:
  * We are accepted into GSoC 2021! Now need to add mentors and create GSoC google group.
  * A demo application for Android that reads camera and runs a deep learning net on it (+ some efforts to make it compact) + tutorial on how to make such app ‚Äî a great GsoC idea.
  * on-cloud training, code sharing infrastructure (python etc.)
* Anna:
  * 2-3 people from xperience.ai could be mentors.
  * Anastasia: finalized/corrected ONNX diagnostic tool in accordance with provided issues from @sl-sergei ((1) onnx_graph_simplifier stage correction, (2) mixing of diagnostics and assertion/error logs), prepared MVP
  * Anastasia: finalized PR #19641 (added corrections in accordance with comments), backported PR #19546
  * Alexander: Finalized PRs #19619, 19675.
  * Alexander: Updated test suppression list in Jenkins CI, reported hardware accelerated video encoding failures on Windows with NVIDIA cards.
  * Alexander: Investigated ccache usage issue on Windows, no ready to use solution for now.
  * Andrey: Split tests on Windows for nightly pipelines in OpenCV CN CI. I am going to implement it into precommit pipelines.
  * Andrey: Added the "pylint" stage for nightly pipelines in OpenCV CN CI. I am going to implement it into precommit pipelines.
  * Andrey: Added warning handling for nightly pipelines in OpenCV CN CI. I am going to implement it into precommit pipelines.
* Shiqi:
  * continued work on the face detection model. Several models have been trained. Still not satisfied with the results, could further improve accuracy and maybe reduce the size (quantize the model)
  * several students are considered as OpenCV interns.
  * need to have a guide on how to build compact OpenCV-based apps for Android
* Alexander:
  * Alexander A has prepared the guide on how to use h/w accelerating video i/o in OpenCV; fixed a few bugs in the code
  * Linux machines in OpenCV CI are upgraded. More RAM is added.
  * Rostislav continues to work on porting functionality from contrib to 3D module; KinFu etc.
* Vincent:
  * less and less compile etc. issues when porting to the new API
  * grid adapter for SURF (trying to find more or less equal number of features in each tile) was removed but may be useful
  * sandbox API (already in GSoC ideas)


## 2021-03-05

### *__Minutes__*
* 1. Feature freeze happened. The official release is targeted at the end of the month.
* 2. OpenCV team will change the branching strategy for the 5.0 release. Rationale: major branches rename breaks a lot of links, including documentation. The goal is to create new major branches and not rename existing ones.
   * a. Master will be renamed to 4.x
   * b. Next will be renamed to 5.x
   * c. No master branch
   * d. Default branch - 5.x
   * e. 6.x will be created for the next major version.
* 3. Proposals for GSoC 2021 are partly approval 
* 4. Jenkins: Xperience AI switched to new networking solution. PRs statuses will be stabilized in a couple of days.
* 5. PRs & Issues:
   * a. Bayer issues: #19629 #18619 #4857
      * i. Deprecate current constants and create new one in 4.x and next
      * ii. AI to Vadim Pisarevsky to work on it.
   * b. Android Camera through NDK ( #19597 )
      * i. Requires minimal supported Android version upgrade.
      * ii. OpenCV team will continue to release OpenCV for Android SDK with conservative strategy with minimal Android version. Native Camera support will not be there. Advanced users can build OpenCV with higher API level and Camera support by their own.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-03-04

### *__Minutes__*
* Gary:
   * 11 GSoC ideas submitted. Maybe need more.
   * Contract is being prepared.
   * Individual membership? (patreon?)
* Vadim:
   * no major updates
* Anna:
   * Lydia: OpenCV.org site: articles on RISC-V optimization and image retrieval have been published.
   * Anastasia: finalized TF reshape appropriate support #19489 (PRs: #857, #19641)
   * Anastasia: corrected PRs in accordance with comments: #19546, #19477
   * Andrey: Fixed ccache on ubuntu-20.04-arm build.
   * Andrey: Added robust timeouts for stages in OpenCV CN CI. 
   * Andrey: Fixed a network problem with git commands in OpenCV CN C
   * Alexander:
      * Finished abandoned PRs #19539, #19668.
      * Scoped work for popular point cloud format support (OBJ, PLY, STL)
      * Reviewed, helped to resolve issues with #19554, #19566, #19619.
      * Helped Andrey with Pylint, build timeouts on CI
   * General activity: OpenCV 5 release is being prepared.
* Shiqi:
   * network configuration of CI system in China. Now it should be fine.
   * purchased mac mini with M1, can now test macOS and iOS.
   * negotiations with some big companies is going on.
* Alexander:
   * OpenCV 4.5.3;
   * hardware video decoding backend has been merged.
   * several image codecs have been upgraded (libtiff, libjpeg, etc.)
   * several video i/o issues & klocwork issues.
   * calib3d crash was fixed.
   * Rostislav is working on rgbd module port. Ceres-based parts are now rewritten in Eigen.
   * ARM target is being added to OpenCV based on Inference Engine backend.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-02-24

### *__Minutes__*
* Gary:
   * opencv.org.cn & opencv.org contract is in progress.
   * GSoC ideas list should be further expanded & more mentors should be added.
* Vadim:
   * Conversion of ficus compiler from ocaml to ficus is still in progress. Ocaml sources have been converted to Ficus.
   * Performance regression testing for OpenCV? Funding from opencv.org?
* Vincent:
   * Migration to OpenCV 4.x is still in progress; less and less problems with compiling OpenCV-based projects.
   * One of critical security issues has been fixed.
* Anna:
   * xperience.ai will concentrate on preparing OpenCV 5.0
   * Andrey: Integrated extended PR testing with OpenCV Contrib and OpenCV Extra into the main pipeline. Reproduced DNN testing locally.
   * Anastasia: finalized #17364 (PR: #849, #19477), completed #19366 analysis.
   * Alexander S: Reviewed Ci failures and test hangs. Tuned suppression lists, fixed yet another non-free handling issue (PR #19488).
   * Alexander S: Reviewed issues filed against OpenCV-Python repository. Tested and closed some bugs. Introduced the same milestones as in core OpenCV. Start looking into current CI setup for the repo and weak points.
   * Alexander S: Prepared slides for HSE course for Courcera. Work on home tasks for the course is in progress.
   * Alexander S: Reviewed, tested, helped to resolve issues with ##19126, 19448, 19439, 19309, 19392
   * Amir: tried to fullfill requirement of preserving compatibility in PR Subdiv2D, unsuccessfully. Hoped to use preprocessor macros  as a flexible approach to relay between new and old logic, but it was more difficult than expected.
* Shiqi:
   * worked on face detection for OpenCV. Trying to reduce the model size even further, make it even more efficient.
* Alexander V:
   * Dual quaternion patch has been merged.
   * GPU implementation of HashedSDF has been merged.
   * The team has started working on colored KinFu.
   * QR detector testing. The report has been sent to WeChat team.
   * Documentation on the universal intrinsics has been updated.
* Stefano:
   * working with TF team during the next months.
   * it may be interesting to support LambdaNetworks in OpenCV (can be a GSoC project): https://openreview.net/forum?id=xTJEN-ggl1b
   * ICLR 2021

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-02-19


### *__Minutes__*
* GSoC 2021:
   * Alexander Smorkalov and Julia Bareeva are ready to participate as mentors;
   * March 9th - decision from Google id OpenCV participates or not
   * April 13th - deadline for students submissions
   * May 17th - Google decision on the amount of participants
   * Ideas: Computational geometry in 3d.
   * Vladimir Dudnik: (https://github.com/YadiraF/PRNet could be a good choice for GSoC 2021) (GPL).



<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-02-17

### *__Minutes__*
* Gary:
   * Registered for GSoC 2021. Need more ideas.
   * Some observable progress on the fiducial tags projects. Now detects the tags robustly, including accurate 3D pose estimation.
   * The project on fiducial tags may be useful for some possible bigger projects.
   * Communicated with a guy with medical background who does research on making neural nets more "human-like".
* Vadim:
   * Conversion of ficus compiler from ocaml to ficus is in progress. The parser is 50% complete.
* Vincent:
   * no major updates
* Anna:
   * Anastasia, Alexander, Amir: working on a number of PRs and issues: #19366 (PR: #19546, #854), #19536, #19539, 19540
     ## 19498, 19543, 19532, 19515, 19503, 19499, 19525, 19392, 19392, 19532.
   * Lydia, Alexander: published announcement about OpenCV Python distro: https://opencv.org/opencv-python-is-now-an-official-opencv-project/
   * Andrey: created a pipeline to download DNN models and implemented the sync of them into current pipelines. Prepared changes for main pipelines to use extended DNN testing.
   * Andrey: Going to add OpenCV pre-built binaries cache to OpenCV CN CI, and implement PR's testing in OpenCV Contrib repository.
   * Lydia: preparing RISC-V article for opencv.org blog.
   * Amir: working on issue #17036 cvtColorTwoPlane(...) with two color planes having different alignments.
* Alexander:
   * dual quaternions PR: several issues have been fixed in order to speedup PR integration process.
   * "parallel_for plugins" PR has been integrated: openmp, tbb and "one tbb".
   * Rostislav is working on 3D module, moving KinFu there.
   * the new ARM target was added to OpenCV DNN (using IE plugin).
   * compared results of OpenCV QR code detector from main repository and Tencent's contribution from opencv_contrib. The results will be reported back.
* Vladimir:
   * IE now supports ARM. Information on how to build OpenCV with ARM support will be put to wiki.
* Shiqi:
   * celebrating Chinese New Year. Next week will continue working on face detection.
* Stefano:
   * benchmark comparing different implementation of matrix product: https://mmperf.org
   * state-of-art performance from deep net w/o batch norm: https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.06171. Helps to significantly accelerate deep network training and avoid the problem with possibly varying statistics between batches.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-02-10

### *__Minutes__*
* Gary:
   * fiducial tags detection project is slowly evolving
* Vadim:
   * SVE2 support is probably coming to OpenCV; will currently use simulator
   * the conversion of ficus compiler from ocaml to ficus has started
* Vincent:
   * https://developers.google.com/sandboxed-api/. Can be a GSoC 2021 project and add safe imread using sandboxed API.
* Alexander:
   * parallel_for plugin is in progress. OpenMP, TBB will be completed soon.
   * the team is working on H/W encoding/decoding in ffmpeg backend.
   * Luba Batanina has reviewed several speed recognition models. Jasper model could probably be easily converted to ONNX.
   * pollkey() function is added to highgui (when no GUI is provided).
   * GPU MatND compilation issue is solved.
   * RGBD issues when running on arm have been fixed.
* Anna:
   * Andrey: Integrated extended PR testing with OpenCV Contrib and OpenCV Extra into the main pipeline. Reproduced DNN testing locally.
   * Anastasia: finalized #17364 (PR: #849, #19477), completed #19366 analysis.
   * Alexander:
      * Reviewed CI failures and test hangs. Tuned suppression lists, fixed yet another non-free handling issue (PR #19488).
      * Reviewed issues filed against OpenCV-Python repository. Tested and closed some bugs. Introduced the same milestones as in core OpenCV. Start looking into current CI setup for the repo and weak points.
      * Reviewed, tested, helped to resolve issues with ##19126, 19448, 19439, 19309, 19392
      * Amir: tried to fulfill requirement of preserving compatibility in PR Subdiv2D, unsuccessfully. Hoped to use preprocessor macros as a flexible approach to relay between new and old logic, but it was more difficult than expected.
   * (WIP) Andrey: Going to embed extended DNN testing into the main pipeline.
   * (WIP) Sergei: Fixing problems with diagnostic tools for ONNX DNN loaders, testing it on examples from issue #19366
   * (WIP) Sergei: Preparing description for extended LSTM support in DNN module
   * (WIP) Anastasia: working on #18920, #19366
   * (WIP) Amir: amendments to PR19392 as requested in comments.
* Shiqi:
   * Working on face detection model. Trained 2 models: 1. face + 5 landmarks, 2. face + 68 landmarks, very efficient and very compact. Size ~100Kb and 250Kb, respectively. Can possibly embed those models into OpenCV.
* Stefano:
   * GTK4 apps can now run in a browser (https://developer.gnome.org/gtk4/unstable/gtk-broadway.html)
   * Vulkan-based API for video decoding.
   * PyTorch started to support Vulkan shaders.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-02-03

### *__Minutes__*
* Gary:
   * GSoC 2021: almost applied. 6 or 7 students still stay in touch with OpenCV.org.
   * What about getting involved into movie industry? Tracking & 3D vision Maybe contact to E.V.
* Vadim:
   * Ficus compiler is in progress; ~60 unit tests are added, many bug have been fixed
* Alexander:
   * Intel team has ARM CPU plugin for Inference Engine; relies on ARM compute library:  https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_contrib/tree/master/modules/arm_plugin
   * Added 2 ideas to GSoC page:
     * speech recognition using OpenCV DNN
     * bridge to Open3D
   * Support for OneAPI TBB: PR is submitted (includes support for user-provided backends of parallel_for_).
   * L. Batanina improved subgraph handling in OpenCV DNN.
* Anna:
   * looking at various PRs
   * improving deep learning module, in particular ONNX importer (more detailed and comprehensive report in the case of failure).
   * opencv python: moving away from travis to our own CI
   * OpenCV China CI: better opencv_extra + opencv_contrib support
* Shiqi:
   * Installed proxy for OpenCV China CI. It made the connection to github much smoother.
   * The nearest plans is to improve libfacedetect, possibly integrate it into OpenCV.
* Vincent:
   * Adding custom InputArray/OutputArray as possible GSoC project. Can possibly mentor or co-mentor.
   * Possible issues with latest versions of OpenCV: 1. inline namespaces, 2. protobuffers (will possibly submit pull request).

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-01-27

### *__Minutes__*
* Gary:
   * GSoC ideas list is being composed
   * Maybe parts of Tencent code can be reused for fiducial tags detection
* Vadim:
   * Ficus compiler is in progress
   * Gave talk on OpenCV 4.5/5.0 (DNN-centered)
* Alexander
   * C++ sample for DaSiamRPN was merged. Tracking API is being polished
   * The work on parallel_for() backend on-fly switching is in progress.
   * CI Infrastructure improvements. More unified linux selection from docker registry
   * Continue integration of OpenCV China CI.
* Anna
   * Alexander: Organized OpenCV-Python repository transfer to OpenCV organization on Github: github/opencv/opencv/python (pip; later some versions for Ubuntu)
   * Alexander: Extended OpenCV CN CI: added Java and Python bindings test on Windows and TEngine testing on ARM; filed related bug #19399.
   * Alexander: Prepared plan for the second stage of OpenCV CN CI contract.
   * Reviewed, tested, helped to resolve issues with PRs ## 17604, 19388, 19078, 19364, 19259 contrib ## 2827 and 2805. Continued work on incoming issues.
   * Andrey: Run the build of OpenCV and OpenCV Contrib locally. Also run tests from OpenCV Extra. Created the Jenkins pipeline to test fixes there.
   * Igor: Finished ccache enabling for Mac OS python packages build in Travis CI. 
   * Amir: restored API / ABI in PR 19126, checks passing. Was involved in Identifying problems in PR17836.
* Shiqi:
   * concated H for CI system. They will unlikely install proxy. But some other alternatives can be considered for smoother network experience.
<pre>
--
</pre>
* Some GSoC ideas to add:
   * Data augmentation module for deep learning training
   * Audio I/O + speech recognition example
   * Higher-level image operations (inspired by pyimagesearch?)
   * Fingerprint recognition sample (?), iris recognition sample (?)

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-01-20

### *__Minutes__*
* Gary:
   * GSoC 2021 Ideas Page set up (in progress)
   * AprilTag detector is still in progress (probably, a part of the new QR code detector can be re-used)
   * some web framework (with web version of imshow etc.) is being developed by some friendly company, and maybe useful for OpenCV.
* Vadim:
   * Tencent has submitted QR code detector into opencv_contrib (under OpenCV/Apache 2 license). Reviewed it (together with Alexander A. from Intel). It works very well. Updated the example to do live detection.
   * good progress on the Ficus compiler
   * reviewed the article for OpenCV.org blog on the places recognition.
* Alexander
   * C++ sample DaSIAM PRN tracker was reviewed and merged.
   * OpenCV CN CI is added into OpenCV CI.
   * Issue with GCC v10 is investigated (wrong support for dispatching)
   * macOS, iOS builds now use ccache.
* Anna
   * Working on several PRs (Python bindings etc.)
   * Voronoi diagram calculation algorithm has been fixed.
   * Provided guide how to download and use network in a Python sample.
   * OpenCV DNN module loader is extended to provide extended diagnostic (as many problems as possible).
   * Finalizing the work on the "official" OpenCV Python package.
   * Good features to track.
* Shiqi:
   * OpenCV CI system is almost ready; Network is unstable. The company who is responsible for the network part (H company) will look into it.
   * Mac mini M1 is ordered and will arrive this month or beginning of the next month.
* Stefano:
   * Visual transformer survey.
   * Looking for the coverage of compiler stack, in particular, sparse kernels.

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2021-01-13

## __*Agenda*__
* Welcome Back
* GSoC 2021
* OpenCV 5.0

### *__Minutes__*
* GSoC -- fiducial detection finish for calibration
   * Calibration toolbox ...
   * All scale fiducial pattern
   * Jan 30 Org registration starts
* Alexander
   * Euler angle support reviewed and merged
   * [Answers.opencv.org](https://answers.opencv.org/questions/) has been made read-only and activity has been moved to much more interactive  [forum.opencv.org](https://forum.opencv.org/)
   * 3D module RGBD parts to 3D module in progress
* OpenCV 5.0
   * Q1 early release
* Anna
* Transfer of Python build to our site
   * PyPI (mac has some issues being resolved)
      * Going to discuss with original author
   * build server for ARM testing continuous integration server in China is up and running
      * Status of ARM builds being linked show up on main server site
   * Working on issues with DNN modules/layers for extending to some specific network architectures and layers (LSTM)
      * 3 people now working
* Vadim
   * Tried Orbbec's Astra 3D camera ‚Äî works great in Parallels running Linux (Ubuntu 20.04) on Mac. Found one little problem, will submit patch soon. Kinect fusion sample was fixed to run on Astra camera; submitted PR.
   * Gave talk at the weekly seminar organized by Orbbec. Presented OpenCV plans on 3D. Slides will be uploaded to the shared drive.
   * Discussed the progress on OpenCV China CI with Alexander from xperience.ai. It's basically ready; just need to finish integration with OpenCV's PR pages at github and also add opencv_contrib build step (to make sure that the API changes in the main OpenCV modules do not break opencv_contrib).
   * Interviewed one guy for OpenCV China team.
   * There is some noticeable progress on Ficus compiler in the past several days, 1 major feature and 2 smaller features have been implemented.

### *__To Dos__*
* Name
  - [ ] Gary to set up Ideas page



***
# _**From end of 2020:**_
***

## 2020-12-23

## __*Agenda*__
* Last progress before 2-week end-of-year break

### *__Minutes__*
* Intel team
   * OpenCV 4.5.1 and 3.4.13 have been released.
   * [answers.opencv.org](https://answers.opencv.org/questions/) is read-only now. Activity on [forum.opencv.org](https://forum.opencv.org/) is where Q&A happens now.
   * The team has reviewed Euler Angles PR, left some comments ([https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/19098](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/19098))
   * Putting RGBD parts to 3D module is in progress
* **Org: Done:**
   * Anastasia: fixed issue #18878
   * Amir: worked on amendments to Voronoi diagram construction with respect to new topology (i.e. Delaunay triangulation) defined by the new predicates. PR #19126 is being reviewed.
   * Alexander: Implemented full RISC-V testing pipeline for OpenCV CN CI with QEMU emulator. Prepared test suppression list for major modules. 
      * Work on multi-core & multi-theading solution for RISC-V is in progress.
      * Implemented pre-commit pipeline for PR testing on Ubuntu 18.04. Work on ARM analogue is in progress.
      * Resolved several networking and security issues and exposed CI server to the Internet. CI master is available at https://build.opencv.org.cn/
      * Analyzed failed tests on CI, filed relevant bugs to Github. All issues are tracked in spreadsheet.
* **In progress:**
   * Anastasia: working on #19183
   * Amir: started with issue #4775
   * Igor: Working on opencv-python packages build speed up
   * Alexander: CI job for PR testing on ARM
      * Read-only access for subset of jobs on CI: pre-commit, nightly.
      * General infrastructure-related tasks for China CI: notifications, backup, etc
* Vadim in Shenzhen 

_In case we skip the meeting next week: Merry Christmas and Happy New Year everyone! Hope 2021 will be a beautiful and uneventful year unlike 2020_  üòÑ 

<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-12-18

## __*Agenda*__
* OpenCV 4.5.1 / 3.4.13 release.
   * target release date: Dec 20-25
   * wiki: changelog
* GSOC blogposts
* OpenCV fails tests on ARM64, module : GAPI. Issues ## 19117..19124.
* ARM tests tolerance check adjustment (put under #if condition)
* China CI integration


### *__Minutes__*
* Release expected on time. AI to all: add notes to changelog.
* AI to all GSoC 2020 maintainers: ping students. Blog post about GSoC project is required. Lydia will contact to RISC-V case author and Depth Fusion
* G-API tests fail on ARM64. Alexander Alekhin reproduced a significant part of tests. The issue is treated as a non-accurate test implementation, but not a library issue. Alexander Smorkalov disables G-API on ARM64.
* Alexander Smorkalov works on OpenCV China CI and stabilizes base builds. A soon as they are stable, Alexander will work on





<pre>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
</pre>

## 2020-12-16
### *__Minutes__*

* Vadim:
   * got back to China successfully. On the quarantine currently.
   * working on OE34 (named parameters), since it may affect a lot of OpenCV 5.x API. Stub solution for Python, Java, JS is ready. Now working on a good solution for Python.
   * Prepared PR 19082 with RISC-V copyright info, but it causes some confusion. It's now being resolved and the updated patch will be prepared shortly.
* Anna:
   * new person (Amir) joined the team. Working on fixing Delaunay triangulation in one corner case (#19126)
   * Alexander is working on a number of PRs. ARM64 issue has been filed.
   * He is also working on OpenCV China CI.
   * Nearest-neighbor resize alignment is another topic.
   * Python bindings is in progress.
   * RISC-V build preparation is in progress.
* Gary:
   * AprilTag: did not have meeting past week. Sent a bunch of datasets to the student for proper testing.
   * Want to take a look at color calibration, contributed by H inc.
   * OpenCV.org is unrolling; OpenCV trademark etc.
   * Negotiating possibility to "hire" expert to implement state-of-art bundle adjustment for OpenCV; self-calibration is another possible topic.
   * OpenCV board meetings need to be resumed. The nearest one is planned at the end of 2020.
* Alexander:
   * A. Alekhin is working on adding versioning to videoio plugings (ffmpeg etc.)
   * Closed 300 invalid/obsolete issues.
   * Finished documentation refactoring. Better look'n'feel: https://pullrequest.opencv.org/buildbot/export/pr/18712/docs/d9/df8/tutorial_root.html
   * Rostislav is moving some functionality from rgbd to 3d; reviewing PR with dual quaternions. 
   * Text recognition GSoC project results have been merged
* Shiqi:
   * helped to resolve issue with RISC-V related copyrights
   * installed fresh NVidia drivers on OpenCV China CI build nodes
   * SSL certificates uploaded
   * network has been tested
* Vincent:
   * filed several issues in the bug tracker about problems found in 4.5.0 and 3.4.12.
* Stefano:
   * participating in TF project; SiFive does excellent job on RISC-V backend


***


[[Meeting_notes]]